# Individual Reflection 

- Name: [Abbie Akinkuolie]
- Student ID: [124395016]
- Member number: [2]
- Group number: [25]
- Last updated: [02/04/25] 

## Challenges and Solutions (Assignments 1-3)
[For each assignment, describe at least two problems you faced while creating this program and how you solved them. This helps show your problem-solving skills.]
### Assignment 1 

1. Problem: [When completing assignment 1, I initially faced problems with implementing CSV into my python file. I was unable to correctly incorporate CSV into my code and because of this I struggled to complete the beginning of the assignment.]

   Solution: [In order to solve this problem, I had to look through previous IS1111 lecture slides including any slides I had missed, in addition to this I revised PowerPoints from my IS1113 web development module which contained even more information on the different ways to implement CSV. After revising these topics, I had a greater understanding of the code required and as a result was able to finish my assignment 1.] 


2. Problem: [Another problem I faced as member 2 for this assignment was minor validation issues such as my name fields exceeding 30 characters as well as allowing empty fields when I was adding employees. This was due to the fact I forgot to highlight the small details while reading the full project brief.] 

   Solution: [To solve these issues I re-read the entire brief and analyzed it by breaking it down into smaller sections. By doing this it ensured I read every detail and reduced my chances of having small errors throughout my code.] 


### Assignment 2
1. Problem: [While completing assignment 2 we experienced problems when we had to combine each of our individual parts of code and create one integrated document. This was due to the fact that we had different variable names and details making it difficult to successfully merge each members pieces together.] 

   Solution: [In order to solve this problem, it required a simple solution which was for us to meet as a group on multiple occasions and merge our code into one document working together to ensure it was consolidated and united.] 

2. Problem: [Furthermore I also faced challenges with the management schedule, when I first wrote my code, I calculated the hours worked incorrectly as I didn't notice that I was missing the weekend hours for each employee.] 

   Solution: [To overcome this issue I simply had to re-read the template and include the correct hours worked by each employee at the weekend. Once I sorted this, I had all the correct information to calculate their pay.] 


### Assignment 3
1. Problem: [When I reached assignment 3, I struggled with my code running smoothly as I experienced indentation errors that were preventing my code from running and I spent a lot of time editing my code until I figured out what was stopping it from working.] 

   Solution: [To solve this it required me to spend time going over my completed code and identify any possible errors until I eventually realized I had incorrectly indented lines of code or left out necessary indentations.] 

2. Problem: [The second challenge I faced for assignment 3 was incorrectly handling the date format. I did not realize until I reached assignment 3 that the correct way to provide the employees start date was to be written year/month/day as I was so used to instinctively writing day/month/year for example: 02/04/25.] 

   Solution: [This problem had an easy solution which was for me to fix the start dates so that they matched the sample employee format.] 

## What I Learned (Assignments 1-3)
[Write about the main things you learned while creating this program. Include both technical skills and general lessons about programming.] 

### Assignment 1 

During this assignment, I learned: 

1.The first thing I learned while working on assignment 1 was CSV and JSON management. I learned how to read, write and modify these files using csv and Json modules.  

2.command line interfaces. I figured out how to create a menu-based system that any user can interact with. 

3.communication skills. When working in a group I can confidently say it improved my social skills and ability to work with others and share ideas. 


### Assignment 2 

During this assignment, I learned: 

1.I learned how to store employee attributes within objects instead of spreading across functions. This is something I was unfamiliar with before the project. 

2.I learned how to ensure the system knows how to respond to invalid dates entered or non-existent employees to avoid crashes when running our code. 

3.I also learned that a class is a blueprint, and an object is an instance of that class. For example, the classes we had included Employee and schedule. 

 

### Assignment 3 

During this assignment, I learned: 

1.How to manage dependencies between all the different parts of our system we created. 

2.I also learned how to efficiently work with a team which I believe is an extremely beneficial skill to possess at college level and is important to get used to bringing all of our work together and ensuring everyone is satisfied with the work we submitted. 

3.the final aspect I learned when completing this assignment was how to generate reports using the stored data such as our employee list report and payroll summary. As they demonstrate real world business applications, and it is easier than manually calculating them. 